.TH IJKGENTABLE 1 "16 MAY 2008"
.SH NAME
ijkgentable \- generate isosurface table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ijkgentable 
[-d \fIdimension\fR] [-ivol] [-nep] 
[-poly {\fIcube|pyramid|simplex|sprism\fR}]
[-o {\fIoutput_filename\fR}]
.RB "[\-hqv]"
[-V <n>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ijkgentable
is a program to generate a table of isosurface patches
for cubes or simplices in arbitrary dimensions.
Isosurface patches for each of the 2^numv +/- vertex sign patterns
are stored in the table where numv is the number of polyhedron vertices.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR "\-d\ " "\fIdimension\fR"
Set dimension to
.I dimension.
.TP
.BR "-ivol"
Compute the interval volume.
.TP
.BR "-nep"
Use an isosurface table with negative, equals (zero) and positive
vertex labels.
The equals vertex labels represents vertices whose scalar value
equals the isovalue.
.TP
.BR \-poly {\fIcube|pyramid|simplex|sprism\fR}
Set polyhedron to cube (hypercube,) pyramid, simplex
or prism with simplex base.
Default is cube.
.TP
.BR \-h
Print help message (and exit.)
.TP
.BR \-q
Quiet mode.  Suppress messages.
.TP
.BR \-v
Verbose mode.  Print messages.
.TP
.BR "\-V\ " <\fIn\fR>
Verbose mode.  Print message after every 
<\fIn\fR> table entries.
.SH NOTES
Tables for hypercubes of dimension five or higher would have 2^32 or more
entries and cannot be generated.
Tables for pyramids of dimension six or higher would have 2^32+1 or more
entries and cannot be generated.
Tables for simplices can be generated up to approximately dimension 20 
depending on your processor speed and memory.
Interval volumes cannot be generated with the -nep flag.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ijkgenpatch, ijktable(3), xit(5).
.SH AUTHOR
Praveen Bhaniramka, Sundaresan Raman, Rephael Wenger
